IBM CTG - Logging section (#454)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/ibm/ibm-ctg-connector.adoc

= IBM CICS Transaction Gateway Connector - Mule 4
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../../assets/images/

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Premium]

IBM CICS Transaction Gateway Connector Version 2.3

Anypoint Connector for IBM CICS Transaction Gateway (IBM CTG Connector) provides integration with back-end CICS apps using the CICS Transaction Gateway. For Java platforms, CTG implements the Java Cryptography Architecture (JCA) resource adapter to connect Java applications to the Customer Information Control System (CICS) system. The connector serves as a link between Mule apps and the IBM CTG.

Release Notes: xref:release-notes::connector/ibm-ctg-connector-release-notes-mule-4.adoc[IBM CICS Transaction Gateway Connector Release Notes - Mule 4]

== Prerequisites

> This document assumes that you are familiar with IBM CTG, Mule, Anypoint Connectors, Anypoint Studio, Mule concepts, elements in a Mule flow, and Global Elements.

Reviewer: GLOBAL edit for TEMPLATE:
```suggestion
To use this information, you must be familiar with IBM CTG, Mule runtime engine (Mule), Anypoint Connectors, Anypoint Studio, Mule concepts, elements in a Mule flow, and Global Elements.
```

You need login credentials to test your connection to your target resource.

To use this connector with Apache Maven, view the pom.xml file dependency information from
the *Dependency Snippets* link in https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/com.mulesoft.connectors/mule-ibm-ctg-connector/[Anypoint Exchange].

> == Important Concepts

Reviewer: What follows are actually glossary entries rather than concepts. Consider titling appropriately.
Also consider if anyone using the documentation for this connector really needs this information; wouldn't they understand it already?
Finally, use definition-list format. See style reference.

> For information on Design Center field values, see the xref:connectors::ibm/ibm-ctg-connector-reference.adoc[Connector Reference].

Reviewer: GLOBALLY and in the TEMPLATE replace "information on" with "information about," per the style reference.

> == Configure the Trigger

Reviewer: THANKS FOR FIXING THIS

. In Design Center, click *Create*.
. Click *Create new application*.

> . Specify a value for *Project name*, and click *Create*.

Reviewer: Don't need a comma because this is short, only two actions, and the subject is not repeated:
```suggestion
. Specify a value for *Project name* and click *Create*.
```

> . Click a trigger to be the input source, such as HTTP Listener or Scheduler trigger. The IBM CTG Connector does not provide a trigger operation.

Reviewer: GLOBAL break after first sentence in a list item or step:
```suggestion
. Click a trigger to be the input source, such as HTTP Listener or Scheduler trigger. 
The IBM CTG Connector does not provide a trigger operation.
```

|===
|Field |Description

> |Protocol | Protocol selected for the HTTP endpoint, it can be HTTP or HTTPS (secure).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Protocol | Protocol selected for the HTTP endpoint: either HTTP or HTTPS (secure).
```
Even *I* know that HTTPS is secure: hence the S. Consider omitting as apparent.

|Host| IP address where a Mule app listens for requests.
|Port| Port address where a Mule app listens for requests.
|Base| Path where a Mule app listens for requests.
|===
+

> . Select the plus sign to add a component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the plus sign (+) to add a component.
```

Reviewer: Line 83 (hidden) edit:

. Configure the Global element for the connector: > 
     Configure the Global Element for the connector:

Reviewer: Lines 93 and 94 (hidden) edit:

Do not use ALLCAPS for emphasis. If necessary, use italics...but rarely necessary due to wording/context....

* ctgserver.jar (CTG Server Library)
* geronimo-j2ee-connector_1.6_spec-1.0.jar
+
Use the JAR files that come bundled within the installation of the IBM CTG server instead of downloading the SDK ZIP from IBM's web site. This ensures compatibility between the connector and the IBM CTG system.
|===
+

> . Go to *Advanced Settings* Tab and complete the configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Go to the *Advanced Settings* tab and complete the configuration.
```

Reviewer: Line 127 (hidden) edit:
The description indicates that this is active "if checked" but inactive "if false"? These are two different types of indication, not antonyms. Clarify.

*&#8224;* *Response Timeout* is overridden by the `ecitimeout` parameter if configured on the server side.
See https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSZHFX_9.0.0/com.ibm.cics.tg.doc/ctgunx/ipictimeout.html[IBM ECI Timeout].

== Add the Connector to a Studio Project

Anypoint Studio provides two ways to add the connector to your Studio project: from the Exchange button in the Studio taskbar or from the Mule Palette view.

=== Add the Connector Using Exchange

. In Studio, create a Mule project.
. Click the Exchange icon *(X)* in the upper-left of the Studio task bar.
. In Exchange, click *Login* and supply your Anypoint Platform username and password.
. In Exchange, search for "ctg".
. Select the connector and click *Add to project*.
. Follow the prompts to install the connector.

=== Add the Connector in Studio

. In Studio, create a Mule project.
. In the Mule Palette view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type "ctg" in the search field.
. Click this connector's name in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

== Configure a Studio Project

> . Drag and drop a connector's operation to the Studio canvas.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY replace "drag and drop" with only "drag," per style reference:
```suggestion
. Drag a connector's operation to the Studio canvas.
```

> . Configure the Global Element for the connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure the Global Element for the connector:
```

Reviewer: hidden text edit: ditto previous comment about emphasis

Reviewer: Line 181 is missing a comma and a colon:

. To add the dependencies select *Add dependency* and complete the fields.  >
     . . To add the dependencies, select *Add dependency* and complete the fields:

Reviewer: Line 185

. Go to Advanced Settings Tab and complete the configuration.  >
     . Go to the *Advanced Settings* tab and complete the configuration:

Reviewer: Line 196, ditto inconsistency between "checked" and "false."

|Execute using COMMAREA |Invokes a CICS program with data encapsulated as a COMMAREA. Requests are limited to a maximum of 32 KB.
|===

== Enable Logging for Requests and Responses

To enable logging of the interactions of the connector with IBM CTG, a logger must be configured in the log4j2.xml file of the Mule app as follows. Put the AsyncLogger statement in the `Loggers` block in the log4j2.xml file:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<AsyncLogger 
	name="org.mule.modules.ibmctg.internal.service.CTGServiceImpl" 
	level="DEBUG"/>
----

== Common Use Cases

. Invoke a COMMAREA program
. Invoke a channel program
. Invoke a COMMAREA or channel program inside a Transactional Scope
. Add custom metadata

> NOTE: To successfully run use cases 1, 2 and 3, the target CICS system must have each program.

Reviewer: I suggest we not refer to the list items by number since they are not numbered:
```suggestion
NOTE: To successfully run the first three use cases, the target CICS system must have the specified programs.
```

|Request Reference | `#[flowVars.commareaRequest]`
|===
+

> . Add a Transform Message between the HTTP and the IBM CTG operation. The connector does not provide dynamic or static metadata, but allows users to define custom types using the Metadata Type tool.

Reviewer: ditto GLOBAL about breaking after first sentence:
```suggestion
. Add a Transform Message between the HTTP and the IBM CTG operation. 
The connector does not provide dynamic or static metadata, but it enables users to define custom types using the Metadata Type tool.
```

[source,json,linenums]
----
{
    date: "08/01/2019 13:41:17"
}
----

=== Invoke a Channel Program

This application calls EC03, a channel-based program that takes an input data container and returns three containers:

> * A data and time container.

Reviewer: Not a sentence:
```suggestion
* A data and time container
```

> * The length of the input data and returns uses channels and containers in a CICS program.

Reviewer: Please review this list item, which appears improperly worded. I am not sure why "returns" is repeated or how the length is a return value....

> * An output container that contains a copy of the input data, or an error message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An output container that contains a copy of the input data or an error message
```

}]
----
+

> . Create a flowVar named request and configure the following fields, as described in <<loadjavametadata>>:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a flowVar variable named `request` and configure the following fields, as described in <<loadjavametadata>>:
```

}
----
+
. Add a Transform Messager after the IBM CTG operation to convert the result into a readable format.
. Add a Logger at the end of the flow.

> . Save the changes and deploy the Mule app. Open a browser and make a request to `+http://localhost:8081/ec03+`. The result should be similar to:

Reviewer: This is two steps:
```suggestion
. Save the changes and deploy the Mule app. 
. Open a browser and make a request to `+http://localhost:8081/ec03+`. 
The result should be similar to:
```

}]
----
+

> . Create a flowVar named request and configure the following fields, as described in <<loadjavametadata>>:

Reviewer: . Create a flowVar variable named `request` and configure the following fields, as described in <<loadjavametadata>>:

}
----

[[addcustommetadata]]
=== Add Custom Metadata

> The IBM CTG connector does not provide dynamic or static metadata out-of-the-box, but allows users to define custom types using the Metadata Type tool. Define input and output metadata as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IBM CTG connector does not provide dynamic or static metadata out of the box, but it enables users to define custom types using the Metadata Type tool. Define input and output metadata as follows:
```

. Place a schema file under `src/main/resources` directory, normally in `.ffd` format.
+
Note: These schema files must be supplied by the user. They can be obtained from COBOL copybooks, which are included in the CICS installation.
+
. Go to the Metadata tab of the connector operation and click *Add metadata*.

> * Select Input:Payload and click *Edit* to open the Metadata Editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select Input:Payload and click *Edit* to open the Metadata Editor:
```

+
image::ibm/ibm-ctg-add-metadata.png[Metadata Editor]
+
. Click *Add* to create a new type and provide and ID for it, that is, ec03-in-type for the program EC03 input data.

> . Select type Copybook, then Schema, and provide the location of the schema file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select type Copybook, select Schema, and provide the location of the schema file.
```

> . This populates a drop-down with a list of available data segments. Choose the one you need and click *Select* to save the configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From the list of available data segments drop-down menu that appears, choose the one you need and click *Select* to save the configuration.
```

> . Drag a DataWeave transformer before the IBM CTG component. Metadata fields become available to build the mapping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag a DataWeave transformer in front of the IBM CTG component in the flow. 
Metadata fields become available to build the mapping.
```

+
image::ibm/ibm-ctg-transform-metadata.png[Metadata fields]
+

> A metadata definition is not a required step to use the IBM CTG connector, but it is essential to improve the usability of the connector. See xref:7.2@studio::create-metadata-class-task.adoc[Create Metadata].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having a metadata definition is not required to use IBM CTG Connector, but it is essential to improve the usability of the connector. See xref:7.2@studio::create-metadata-class-task.adoc[Create Metadata].
```

[[loadjavametadata]]
==== Load Java Metadata

In DataWeave, click *Define Metadata* to open the Metadata window.

> . Click *Add* and provide the an ID, such as `CommareaRequest`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Add* and provide an ID, such as `CommareaRequest`.
```

> . Select type Java, then Java object in the Data Structure table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select type Java and then select a Java object in the Data Structure table.
```
